hi I'm rest can't - from cattles Church
creative or help nonprofits move their
online visitors to in-person guests and
you're watching 100 days of SEO what is
happening my smart smart friends just
coming home from the gym we are about to
go inside I'm gonna hop on the computer
we're gonna do a tutorial Thursday on
content marketing for SEO if you want
the slides from this deck you want all
of the cool stuff that I'm putting out
make sure you go to 100 days of SEO comm
flat join let's get into this all right
what's up smart friends we are here in
the computer first one is go have a
quick shout out to each rep so you're
gonna see me use their tool multiple
times in different ways throughout what
we're talking about today which is
content marketing for SEO if you're
interested in getting these slides if
you are interested in getting all of the
bonuses available like I said go to 100
days of seo.com slash join today taking
a look at content marketing for SEO
before we dive into that quick intro in
case you are new here my name is Brendon
Hufford I'm the founder of SEO for the
rest of us and this project 100 days of
SEO
I'm also the SEO director of click
studios I took that position after
spending ten years in the classroom two
of those as an assistant principal
because I am a total maniac horrible
decision but I'm essentially just a
regular dude and if I can learn this
stuff so can you and if I can radically
change my life with SEO I believe you
can as well so in this tutorial Thursday
we're going to talk about what content
marketing for SEO is why it works and
why not to use it when to use it all the
time how to do it and then I'll even
give you a couple like like case studies
as well that I think will be extremely
helpful so you'll start to understand
what we're talking about and how it can
help you in your specific business in
fact do me a favor right now if you are
listening to this on the podcast go
ahead and give me a subscribe if you are
watching on YouTube please thumbs up I
know this is gonna be helpful and
subscribe it in the comments below when
this video ends I just want to do a call
to action now when this video ends let
me know how you are going to be able to
use
content marketing in your unique
business so often we share examples of
content marketing in the content
marketing space and it gets very meta
and we're gonna try not to do that here
but I want to hear in your unique
business how are you gonna use content
marketing for SEO so what is content
marketing a quick definition I love this
one from Brian Clark of Copyblogger
brian says content marketing means
creating and sharing valuable free
content to attract and convert prospects
into customers and customers and repeat
buyers the type of content you share is
closely related to what you sell in
other words you're educating people so
that they know like and trust you enough
to do business with you content
marketing is not new
okay content marketing has been around
forever in fact that's where we get the
term soap opera from two most famous
soap operas as the world turns in
guiding light both ran from the mid 50s
until 2009 and 2010 respectively
so quote from Glenn Alsip we want to
keep this as our North Star throughout
this entire tutorial Thursday you really
got to be honest with yourself here when
you're thinking about content marketing
and you're thinking about creating
content that is going to get shared that
is going to earn you links if somebody
else shared this would people thank them
for it is it that kind of content when
you share it on Twitter people just say
oh thank you for sharing this with me
you know times 1,000
I needed this this is so helpful etc
that's got to be our North Star do not
start on a content marketing campaign
that's the way I want to think about
this content marketing for SEO is a
campaign there are certain levers that
we pull at different times different
things that we do
don't even bother starting if your
content isn't unique but if you're
really gonna be serious about content
marketing you really you know he's
serious about creating content that gets
shared and that earns you links it has
to be unique I will explain how to do
that shortly number two if you're trying
to build vanity metrics if you're trying
to get likes or followers if you're
trying to build vanity metrics like this
is not for you and finally if you don't
own the content you know I know hacker
noon just left medium.com like if you
don't actually own the sandbox you're
playing in do not try to use content
marketing now why content marketing
works for SEO again
sharing that content that we've created
why does this actually help SEO number
one people want resources right they
want to link out to quality resources
that's an essential part of writing the
more resources we give them to link to
the more credible their content is the
second part is that rank begets rank so
if I ranked number one for a term that
people are looking up information about
theirs it's more likely that they're
going to link to me in the future it's
more likely that if they find me on that
first page of Google it's gonna create a
flywheel effect where I'm already on the
first page so I'm getting more links so
I'm staying on the first page and so
forth and finally brand matters when I'm
thinking of linking to something I want
to link to my friends and that's really
where this comes out too it's just
relationships and making friends with
people I want to link to and I mentioned
him a lot in 100 days of SEO but I want
to link to
Jason Zook of wandering Amy I want to
link to
Paul Jarvis even though Paul doesn't do
any SEO I want to link to these people
because I like them because I trust them
I want to link to
Nick Eubanks and Ryan Stewart and all of
these other people that you're seeing on
friends Friday because I trust them and
their brand matters to me so there's
this really cool case study from Tyler
of optimists and Tyler says that in
their content marketing strategy content
needs to do three things they need to
create content that attracts relevant
search traffic they're kind of core
audience here college bound students but
also their parents and also the schools
so a couple different audiences number
two I had to generate links to the
website number three I had to gain
traction and authority in the space and
they needed that traction through social
because the brand mattered but they also
said that it was gonna be absolutely
insane to try to create a magical piece
of content a unicorn piece of content to
do all of these things so they actually
focused in three areas their content
marketing plan and I think this is great
and that's why I want to share it with
you I if you know who this is without me
telling you we just became best friends
in case you don't this is Jim when
Larry's well-known strength athlete and
strength coach and one of the best tips
I ever got from Jim it really had
nothing to do with strength training or
anything and what he said was he was
answering a forum question where this
guy said I don't understand like I want
girls to like me how do I get girls to
like me and Jim just said look at me I
am NOT an attractive
and I'm not the strongest person or the
fastest person but I am extremely
interesting
I do really interesting things and I can
hold a conversation that is how you get
girls and I'm not talking to you about
how to attract a mate hear what I'm
talking to you is about how to build
relationships tim solo from href echoes
this and says don't write about
marketing strategies you've heard from
someone only write about things you have
personally tried you can build amazing
content off of data but it has to be
something you've personally tried it has
to be something that is unique now I'm
gonna give you a couple strategies here
these all come from workshop number four
of my paid course SEO for the rest of us
so I'm not going to get into these too
deeply because I really love what's in
the course but I want to share with you
a couple slides from this presentation
really quickly the question is gonna
come up how do I reach out how do i
market this content how do I reach out
to people right so number one we want to
reach out to people in kind of three
different tiers and we want to really
break a dream 100 list of people to
share our content with to market our
content to we break this down into three
tiers the first tier is people who are
at the same level as you in whatever
industry you're in whether you're a
designer and developer whether you're
into gardening whether you're into
marketing like me you're looking for
people at the same level as you tier two
or people who are a little bit past you
but you can still get on their radar and
then tier three now the last third of
your dream 100 are your moonshots these
are people that you have no change no
real significant chance to day of
getting a link from of getting them to
share your stuff but we're still going
to market our content to these people I
think this is way more effective than
just trying to do generic things like
share it on Reddit share it on Quora
like I think those things will work but
you have to have a more focused strategy
as much as we want to call it buzzwords
of influence or marketing that's not
what we're doing I'm not paying an
influencer I'm not trying to use them
for their influence I'm trying to build
a relationship with these people so that
they just naturally want to share my
content when I make new things how do I
find these people to market my content
to I like to use href site use SEO tools
like Google things related in my
industry to find out who already ranks
highly for stuff these are people again
with websites that might link
to me I try to find a blue ocean so I'm
not looking at everybody who does what I
do and then finally this is like my
ultimate hack I like to look at
affiliates for products in my mine it's
using Clickbank and jvzoo and stuff if
you want to take a shortcut I'm not
getting paid for this I'm not even an
affiliate for it you can go to detail
comm Glen alsep of detail comm has put
together I could already quoted him
earlier but this incredible database of
people that you can reach out to and
market your content to so I definitely
would recommend checking out detailed
com now I want to hop into a couple
quick case studies I use the best buy
links I'm gonna hover over here in the
bottom left the best buy links tool
within href so I pulled up mister money
mustache com it's one of my favorite
websites
I have zero plans to retire early
through saving my money and not spending
anything I'm going to spend it all and
have a wonderful life but I do find
mister money mustache to be an
incredibly insightful website and I love
looking at it here's why if I look at
the referring domains column here I can
see you know obviously the home page is
getting the most links but I want to see
what was getting the most links after
that there's some some math behind early
retirement that has 744 links that's a
lot of links to a blog post from 2012
414 links go to a blog post from 2013
like these are all old number seven here
is finally from 2019 but these are
really old blog posts I was like I
wondered you know is this stuff that
earns links over time and it does so
this is that blog post from 2012 and if
you look the referring domains this
continues to get links in the last 30
days it has gotten 20 links and this
blog post was written seven years ago
over seven years ago and it's still got
20 links last month that is exceptional
content marketing because this content
is so good that people still want to
link to it it is still a valuable
resource over seven years later now this
is the type of content that we have to
create another example is the if we're
gonna create something really cool like
a tool I love the Kindle bestseller
calculator from Kindle printer calm and
if you look at this it continues to
build links as well so again before we
head out I just want
again check out 100 days of seo.com
/join I would implore you to consider
more content marketing for your SEO
efforts don't think that rank is all
that matters brand matters in SEO the
ability to get links depends heavily on
how much people like and trust you so
make sure you are figuring out other
ways to get your content in front of
people especially people with websites
who can link to you again if you want
the slides and all the other bonuses
including the pillar content masterclass
where I teach you how to create content
that will rank in Google go to 100 days
of seo.com slash join I've been Brendan
Huffer don't forget to work hard be nice
people and don't get too lost trying to
create something
[Music]